Add warnings and errors for ref readonly (#37493)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/ref-modifiers-errors.md

---
title: Errors and warnings associated with reference parameter modifiers

> description: The compiler issues these errors and warnings when you have used the reference parameter modifiers incorrectly. They indicate you've got some mismatch between the modifier on the parameter, the argument, or the use of the parameter in the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The compiler issues these errors and warnings when you use the reference parameter modifiers incorrectly. They indicate a mismatch between the modifier on the parameter, the argument, or the use of the parameter in the method.
```

- ***[Value expression used where a reference variable is needed](#reference-variables-require-a-referent)*** - The expression used as a reference variable must be a variable, not a value expression.
- ***[Writable reference variables referring to readonly variables](#writable-reference-variables-require-a-writable-referent)*** - A reference to a readonly variable can't be passed by writable reference.
- ***[violations of ref safety](#ref-safety-violations)*** - A reference variable can't refer to a variable that has a narrower context. That would mean the reference variable could refer to invalid memory.

This article uses the term *reference variable* as a general term for a parameter declared with one of the `in`, `ref readonly`, `ref`, or `out` modifiers, or a `ref` local variable, a `ref` field in a `ref struct`, or a `ref` return. A reference variable refers to another variable, called the *referent*.

## Incorrect syntax

These errors indicate that you're using incorrect syntax regarding reference variables:

- **CS8373** - *The left-hand side of a `ref` assignment must be a ref variable.*

> - **CS8388** - *An `out` variable cannot be declared as a ref local*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CS8388** - *An `out` variable cannot be declared as a ref local.*
```

- **CS9072** - *A deconstruction variable cannot be declared as a ref local*
- **CS9199** - *A `ref readonly` parameter cannot have the Out attribute.*

The following warnings indicate that a reference variable shouldn't be used, and might be unsafe:

- **CS9184** - *'Inline arrays' language feature is not supported for inline array types with element field which is either a '`ref`' field, or has type that is not valid as a type argument.*
- **CS9196** - *Reference kind modifier of parameter doesn't match the corresponding parameter in overridden or implemented member.*
- **CS9197** - *Reference kind modifier of parameter doesn't match the corresponding parameter in hidden member.*
- **CS9198** - *Reference kind modifier of parameter doesn't match the corresponding parameter in target.*
- **CS9200** - *A default value is specified for `ref readonly` parameter, but `ref readonly` should be used only for references. Consider declaring the parameter as `in`.*
- **CS9201** - *Ref field should be ref-assigned before use.*

To fix the error, remove the reference variable where it isn't allowed:

> - Remove `in`, `ref` and `out` parameters from [indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md), [iterators](../../iterators.md), and [async methods](../../asynchronous-programming/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `in`, `ref`, and `out` parameters from [indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md), [iterators](../../iterators.md), and [async methods](../../asynchronous-programming/index.md).
```

- Remove [ref conditional expressions](../operators/conditional-operator.md#conditional-ref-expression) (`? :`) that include an [await](../operators/await.md).
- Remove the `ref` modifier from the first parameter of a [extension method](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/extension-methods.md) where that type isn't a value type or a generic type constrained as a value type.
- Either both or neither [conditional operator expressions] must be `ref` variables. Either remove `ref` from one expression, or add it to the other. If it's a `ref` conditional expression, both expressions must be the same type.
- `ref` and `out` parameters can't have [default values](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/named-and-optional-arguments.md). Either remove the `ref` or `out` modifier, or remove the default value.
- The range variable in a [LINQ query expression](../../linq/query-expression-basics.md) can't be passed by reference.
- You can't deconstruct an object into reference variables. Replace the reference variables with value variables.

> - Implementing multiple interfaces where method overloads differ only on `ref` and `out`. For example, one interface declares `void M(ref int i)` and another interface declares `void M(out int i)`. A class can't implement both interfaces because the methods aren't distinguishable. You can only implement one of those interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can't implement multiple interfaces where method overloads differ only on `ref` and `out`. For example, one interface declares `void M(ref int i)` and another interface declares `void M(out int i)`. A class can't implement both interfaces because the methods aren't distinguishable. You can only implement one of those interfaces.
```

- Methods attributed with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedCallersOnlyAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType> can't use reference parameters.
- A Windows runtime event can't be passed as a reference variable.

> - A `ref readonly` parameter can't be an Out parameter.

Reviewer: What does "Out" refer to here?

Author: The `Out` attribute for remoting APIs. Updated.

- **CS1651** - *Fields of a `static readonly` field cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in a static constructor)*
- **CS1655** - *Cannot use fields of type as a `ref` or `out` value*
- **CS1657** - *Cannot use variable as a `ref` or `out` value*
- **CS8329** - *Cannot use variable as a `ref` or `out` value because it is a readonly variable*
- **CS8330** - *Members of variable cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value because it is a readonly variable*
- **CS8331** - *Cannot assign to variable or use it as the right hand side of a `ref` assignment because it is a readonly variable*
- **CS8332** - *Cannot assign to a member of variable or use it as the right hand side of a `ref` assignment because it is a readonly variable*
- **CS9116** - *A primary constructor parameter of a `readonly` type cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer)*
- **CS9119** - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer)*

> Examples of variable that aren't writable include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of variables that aren't writable include:
```

- [readonly](../../language-reference/keywords/readonly.md) fields, both instance and static fields.
- Members of `readonly` fields.
- The `this` variable.
- The [foreach](../../language-reference/statements/iteration-statements.md#the-foreach-statement) iteration variable

> - A [using](../../language-reference/statements/using.md) variable, or a [fixed](../../language-reference/statements/fixed.md)

Reviewer: A fixed \<what>?

Author: fixed variable (unsafe code). Updated.

- **CS9086** - *The branches of the ref conditional operator refer to variables with incompatible declaration scopes*
- **CS9087** - *This returns a parameter by reference but it is not a `ref` parameter*
- **CS9089** - *This returns by reference a member of parameter that is not a `ref` or `out` parameter*
- **CS9091** - *This returns local by reference but it is not a ref local*
- **CS9092** - *This returns a member of local by reference but it is not a ref local*
- **CS9093** - *This ref-assigns source to destination but source can only escape the current method through a return statement.*
- **CS9094** - *This returns a parameter by reference through a `ref` parameter; but it can only safely be returned in a return statement*
- **CS9095** - *This returns by reference a member of parameter through a `ref` parameter; but it can only safely be returned in a return statement*
- **CS9097** - *This ref-assigns source to destination but source has a wider value escape scope than destination allowing assignment through destination of values with narrower escapes scopes than source.*

> The compiler uses static analysis to determine if the referent is valid at all points where the reference variable can be used. You need to refactor code so that the referent remains valid at all locations where the reference variable may refer to it. For details on the rules for ref safety, see the C# standard on [ref safe contexts](~/_csharpstandard/standard/variables.md#972-ref-safe-contexts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler uses static analysis to determine if the referent is valid at all points where the reference variable can be used. You need to refactor code so that the referent remains valid at all locations where the reference variable might refer to it. For details on the rules for ref safety, see the C# standard on [ref safe contexts](~/_csharpstandard/standard/variables.md#972-ref-safe-contexts).
```
